Now that we have our smart contract ready to store
a star in this deployed tar local Ethereum test network,
let's now build a simple web page to interact with it.
I'm going to be using Visual Studio Code as
my IDE or Integrated Development Environment and I highly recommend,
but please feel free to use any editor of your choice.
Go ahead and get the support files for this section.
You should find just a simple index HTML page,
and some very basic CSS to make it look pretty.
The first tool that we'll learn about is web3.js.
web3.js is a JavaScript library that has a collection of
helper tools and modules that will help us to talk to an Ethereum provider or node.
In this case, the Ethereum provider that we'll use is
the local test network that we have deploying our smart contracts to.
Okay. Now, let's look at index.html file that was given to us.
Notice that on line seven,
we're importing our style sheet,
and on line nine, we're importing the web3.js library that we just talked about.
Now take a look at line 32.
Here we are instantiating our web3 object using the Ethereum provider which in this case,
is our local tests network that lives on our local host on port 8545.
Remember, if you're using
Ganache graphical user interface instead of the command-line tool,
your local Ethereum test network will be on port 7545 instead.
Now that we have our web3 object,
we can use it to talk to our Ethereum test network.
For example, here we can grab
the top account or wallet associated with our local Ethereum test network,
and set it as our default account.
By setting it as our default account,
they'll be used whenever we make calls to our smart contract.
Take a look at the codes up here.
In this section, we'll grab
the application binary interface or ABI of our smart contracts,
so that we can build a Javascript representation of it.
This gives us the ability to call the functions and
variables associated with our smart contracts from within our webpage.
We'll then construct a reference where I already deployed smart contract
by specifying the contract address for where it was deployed on the Ethereum network.
Next, we'll write methods to display information we'll get from smart contract like
name and owner and enable functionality to claim a star or a button on our webpage.
Let's go back to remix in order to get the ABI for our smart contract.
Within the compile tab on the right,
we'll click on the details button.
Here, we'll see a bunch of details about our smart contract.
The section we care about right now is called the ABI.
We can look at what the ABI has.
For example, here we have claimStar which is the function that we wrote.
Here, we have a constructor,
and the next two are starName and starOwner which are
functions so that we can view the public variables that we wrote.
In order to get the ABI,
click on this button to the right of it which will copy
the value to our clipboard. Let's go back to the code.
Find the place where we need to place an ABI and go ahead and do just that.
Great.
Now, we have a Javascript representation for our smart contract.
Next thing we're going to have to do,
is grab the contract address, and paste it in here.
Since we use remix to deploy,
we can find the smart contract address and limits as well.
If you go to the run tab on the right,
we'll look at this deployed contracts that we have.
Here we have StarNotary deployed at this particular address.
To get the address, you can click on copy value
to clipboard button again and paste it in here.
So now, we have an interface for our smart contract,
and we know exactly where in the blockchain it is.
Now, we can use this in order to get values from
our smart contract that is now deployed on our test Ethereum network.
So, to get the starNotary name,
all you have to do is call the starName function,
which as you can see here returns an output of type string.
Now, because everything dealing with blockchain is asynchronous,
we're going to get a callback function.
The callback function is going to have an error or a result.
If we don't have an error,
then we know we have a valve results,
and we can put this valve results into the label for our starName.
The label here has an ID starName.
So, we'll go ahead and use that.
We'll set it to the results.
If there is an error, then let's go ahead and make
a console log so that we can debug further if we do have an error.
Great. Now, we can do something very similar for the starOwner as well.
We can call starOwner,
which once again, gives us a callback function of error and result.
If we don't have an error, then we're good to go.
In here, we have a label with an ID starOwner,
then we can then grab and set to the results.
If there is an error, it'll go ahead and print a message for us,
so it'll help us debug further.
Okay, we also have a button to claim the star.
The button is right here,
and this is the method that we're about to implement.
Once again, we can call claimStar,
which is a method on our smart contract,
and it'll call that method with a default account associated with the web3 object,
and once again we're going to get callback function with an error and the results,
and if there is no error,
we can reload the page so that our values get refreshed.
Now, this isn't a perfect solution,
and we'll see why in a moment.
The reason for this is because blockchain is asynchronous,
and sometimes it takes a little bit for it to sync.
Just because we call the claimStar method,
it doesn't guarantee that it fully went through by the time I reload the page.
I'll show you how to get around this problem in the next section but for now just be
aware that sometimes this may not work and you might have to reload the page twice.
Okay, now that we implemented everything,
let's go see if it works.
Again just a static page with some Javascript involved.
We don't need anything extra.
We can just load it in our webpage.
Great. So, we have the star name which is
Awesome Udacity Star and for now we have no owner.
So, when I click the Claim Star,
it will use the default account which is the top account from
the test accounts that was available to me from the Ethereum test network,
and that account is going to be [inaudible] ,
and it's this account right here.
Next up, I'll show you how to better interact with
your smart contract by using something called events.